google has over 3 000 algorithm changes
that they release each and every single
year that's a lot of algorithm changes
you already know seo changes so
frequently because of the number of
algorithm changes that google releases
now sure most of them are small but
these large ones can have a massive
shift in your rankings so how do you
prepare for it in 2021 what else is
going to change in 2021 hey everyone i'm
neil patel and today i'm going to break
down how seo will change in 2021 and
what you need to do about it
now before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
see i've been doing seo for a very very
long time when i first started doing seo
it was literally just as simple as
adding keywords to your title tag or
within the text of your content and you
could rank on page one seriously that's
how easy it was and it was that way for
a few years and then eventually you
would need to do things like on-page seo
and then eventually you would need to do
things like build links but it was
really simple these days there really
isn't a holy grail of seo and although
some people are claiming seo is dead it
isn't i'm living proof that it still
works all our customers are as well but
that doesn't mean seo is not changing
and there's a few things that you need
to know and be prepared for in 2021 the
first thing you need to get used to and
this is the first trend is that your
rankings are going to see saw even
though google releases a lot of ranking
changes each and every single year the
thing you need to know is when they
release the major changes your runnings
will either go up or down sometimes they
stay the same but a lot of times you're
just seeing them go up or down if you do
the right things it doesn't mean that
your rankings are always going to go up
into the right sometimes they still go
down but if you do the right things and
you continually put the user first and
you're doing all the right seo stuff
typically if you fast forward a year
from that day your rankings will be up
your traffic should be up as well but
you need to get used to them see-sawing
and be okay with that that is gonna be
the new normal trend number two
positioning will be more important than
ever and that first spot is gonna be the
holy grail in which that's what you need
to
shoot for and aim for it's going to be
really hard to get there it's not going
to be that if you build more links in
your competitor that it's going to shoot
you up to number one things like user
metrics are going to matter but the
reason i say position one will be more
valuable than ever and this is what we
all are trying to aim for is because
with google constantly making new
changes such as being able to get
mortgage rates whenever you search or
the weather
all these types of changes or even
potentially being able to purchase
tickets when you search right for travel
all these things can affect your revenue
so if you rank lower and lower on page
one
what you'll find is you'll get less
clicks and most people say hey i want to
be in the top 10 spots because if i'm in
the top 10 spots i'm on page one for a
lot of queries out there there's not 10
spots on page one there's no such thing
as every page one listing of google has
10 organic listings that has changed for
some queries we're seeing it only seven
or eight or nine
queries or listings right so you want to
take that top spot because you're
putting in other stuff that decreases
traffic now it doesn't mean seo is dead
there's still more and more people
coming online more people using google
more people searching so you can still
do well if you're in position two or
three or even on page one but number one
has a massive huge difference from being
on number two or number three or number
four even if it's still on page one
trend number three
user experience is now seo google has
something called page level experience
which you know they're rolling out on
mobile devices and more people are using
these mobile devices that my cartoon
hand is holding up than desktop
computers so if you want to do really
well you need to optimize for mobile and
i'm not just talking about paid speed or
your links or can people
read your site on mobile or is it
loading fast i'm talking about the
overall experience how's your mobile
experience compared to other users are
they finding what they're looking for
right away versus the competition are
they able to scroll quickly and
understand the product that you're
selling or consume your block content on
a mobile device versus having to go to a
desktop computer to consume your content
heck i don't even care if you're in b2b
your content needs to be consumable on a
mobile device and that's super super
important if you don't optimize for
experience you're gonna lose in the long
run
trend number four the riches are going
to be in the niches more than ever
especially with seo and here's why if
you look at about.com big company big
brand but yet that business was
floundering they weren't doing well and
then eventually they ended up breaking
into a handful of sites and then they
even broke it into more sites the reason
they broke it into handful sites is they
started focusing on niches they deleted
the majority of their content i'm
talking about hundreds and hundreds and
thousands of pages of content when they
focus on niche related sites not only
did their traffic go up their revenue
also went up
you need to focus on building niche
sites it's not about building a
wikipedia type site if you want to do
that that's great but because there's
over a billion blogs and a ton of sites
and a ton of competition they want to
rank authority sites more than ever and
it typically from what we're seeing is
people who focus on one niche tend to be
better well-versed around that niche not
always the case but in many cases and
they tend to be more of a quote unquote
authority so in the long run they end up
ranking better because they go more in
depth on each and every single one of
those topics
trend number five content length won't
matter as much i've given this example
so many times if you see
the chart below you'll see that everyone
talks about oh if you want to rank you
need over 2 000 words and i get that yes
content can help you and for many
queries the pages that rank at the top
have over 2 000 words but it doesn't
mean you need to create 2 000 word
articles if you want to rank for how to
tie a tie do you really think someone
wants to read a 2000 word article versus
seeing an animated gif teaching them how
to tie a tie or a video
get to the point with your content and
when google started releasing things
around user experience within their
algorithm things like content length
became less important because they know
if a user just bounces away even if you
have 2 500 words they know it's not that
valuable and your rankings are gonna go
down so don't obsess about word count or
keyword density obsess about the quality
of your content and are you getting the
user what they're looking for as quick
as possible trend number six
you won't have to build as many
backlinks with things like user metrics
that are really kicking into high gear
we're seeing it that if you build too
many links too fast it actually takes
you longer to rank and can hurt your
rankings so it's better off just
releasing your content not building
links and letting it happen organically
and then over time sure do the manual
outreach but let your content sit there
for three to four months before you even
start that manual outreach and when you
do that we're seeing that the rankings
are climbing up faster and higher than
if you were building tons and tons of
links from day one it's just not as
organic and i'm not saying you're buying
links you should never buy links you
should never try to break their policies
or at least google's policies
more so what you need to do is just be
slow and patient taking that slow and
patient route funny enough is getting
people rankings faster than if they're
taking inpatient quick route of building
links right away
credit number seven branding won't be
enough remember about.com everyone knows
about about.com popular site but yet
when they had that big brand they
weren't ranking for everything why
because google really wants people to be
authority within the space so building a
brand and following the rule of seven
where people interact and see with your
brand seven times yes that can help
boost your rankings but it's not enough
you need to be a authority within your
niche so make sure you go and focus on
being the end-all be-all expert within
whatever niche you're in now here's a
bonus trend for you
we're seeing that businesses are going
to have to start thinking about global
seo from day one seo is no longer hey
i'm in the united states or i'm in the
uk or i'm in brazil or india and i'm
doing business it's hey i'm doing
business and i want anyone in the world
to purchase from me so from day one you
need to start thinking about global seo
as your strategy instead of just seo
within your region and you're gonna have
to look at things like translations and
especially updating and repurposing your
content in all of these regions as well
and as you can see from the survey data
that we did with all our customers
translations is causing the biggest
boost in traffic and as you can see from
my own stats here i'm getting a lot of
traffic from a lot of different
countries united states makes up roughly
20 percent the rest of the world makes
up 80 plus percent of my traffic now if
you have any questions about the future
of seo or what's happening leave a
comment below i'll answer it if you
enjoyed this video like it share it
subscribe to the channel tell the people
about it thank you for watching